docs/docs/query-runner.md, before:

# Query Runner

## What is a QueryRunner?

Each new `QueryRunner` instance takes a single connection from the connection pool, if the RDBMS supports connection pooling.
For databases that do not support connection pools, it uses the same connection across the entire data source.

The full QueryRunner API is documented in the [migrations section](./migrations/09-api.md).

## Creating a new `QueryRunner` instance

Use the `createQueryRunner` method to create a new `QueryRunner`:

```typescript
const queryRunner = dataSource.createQueryRunner()
```

## Using `QueryRunner`

After creating a new instance of `QueryRunner`, a connection will be acquired from the pool when you issue the first query:

```typescript
const queryRunner = dataSource.createQueryRunner()
await queryRunner.query("SELECT 1")
await queryRunner.release()
```

You can also use `connect` method to directly get a connection from the connection pool:

```typescript
const queryRunner = dataSource.createQueryRunner()
const clientConnection = await queryRunner.connect()
await queryRunner.release()
```

**Important**: make sure to release the `QueryRunner` when it is no longer necessary to return the connection back to the connection pool:

```typescript
await queryRunner.release()
```

After the `QueryRunner` is released, it is no longer possible to use the query runner methods.

`QueryRunner` also has its own `EntityManager` instance, which you can use through the `manager` property to run `EntityManager` queries on a particular database connection used by the `QueryRunner` instance:

```typescript
let queryRunner: QueryRunner
try {
    queryRunner = dataSource.createQueryRunner()
    // use a single database connection to execute multiple queries
    await queryRunner.manager.update(
        Employee,
        { level: "junior" },
        { bonus: 0.2 },
    )
    await queryRunner.manager.update(
        Employee,
        { level: "senior" },
        { bonus: 0.1 },
    )
} catch (error) {
    console.error(error)
} finally {
    // remember to release connection after you are done using it
    await queryRunner.release()
}
```

## Explicit Resource Management

`QueryRunner` also supports explicit resource management:

```typescript
async function updateSalaries() {
    await using queryRunner = dataSource.createQueryRunner()
    await queryRunner.manager.update(
        Employee,
        { level: "junior" },
        { bonus: 0.2 },
    )
    await queryRunner.manager.update(
        Employee,
        { level: "senior" },
        { bonus: 0.1 },
    )
    // no need anymore to manually release the QueryRunner
}

try {
    await updateSalaries()
} catch (error) {
    console.error(error)
}
```

When declaring a query runner like this, it will be automatically released after the last statement in the containing scope was executed.

Commit message:

feat: add DataSource runWithQueryRunner
Add new method on DataSource that run a given function with an existing
or a temporary QueryRunner with automatic cleanup.

docs/docs/query-runner.md, after:

# Query Runner

## What is a QueryRunner?

Each new `QueryRunner` instance takes a single connection from the connection pool, if the RDBMS supports connection pooling.
For databases that do not support connection pools, it uses the same connection across the entire data source.

The full QueryRunner API is documented in the [migrations section](./migrations/09-api.md).

## Creating a new `QueryRunner` instance

Use the `createQueryRunner` or `runWithQueryRunner` method to create a new `QueryRunner`:

```typescript
const queryRunner = dataSource.createQueryRunner()
```

or

```typescript
const value = await dataSource.runWithQueryRunner(async (queryRunner) => {
    // queryRunner is new instance available until function resolves/rejects
    return something;
})
```

## Using `QueryRunner`

After creating a new instance of `QueryRunner`, a connection will be acquired from the pool when you issue the first query:

```typescript
const queryRunner = dataSource.createQueryRunner()
await queryRunner.query("SELECT 1")
await queryRunner.release()
```

You can also use `connect` method to directly get a connection from the connection pool:

```typescript
const queryRunner = dataSource.createQueryRunner()
const clientConnection = await queryRunner.connect()
await queryRunner.release()
```

**Important**: make sure to release the `QueryRunner` when it is no longer necessary to return the connection back to the connection pool:

```typescript
await queryRunner.release()
```

When using `runWithQueryRunner`, the `QueryRunner` instance is released when the workload callback promise settles.

After the `QueryRunner` is released, it is no longer possible to use the query runner methods.

`QueryRunner` also has its own `EntityManager` instance, which you can use through the `manager` property to run `EntityManager` queries on a particular database connection used by the `QueryRunner` instance:

```typescript
let queryRunner: QueryRunner
try {
    queryRunner = dataSource.createQueryRunner()
    // use a single database connection to execute multiple queries
    await queryRunner.manager.update(
        Employee,
        { level: "junior" },
        { bonus: 0.2 },
    )
    await queryRunner.manager.update(
        Employee,
        { level: "senior" },
        { bonus: 0.1 },
    )
} catch (error) {
    console.error(error)
} finally {
    // remember to release connection after you are done using it
    await queryRunner.release()
}
```

## Explicit Resource Management

`QueryRunner` also supports explicit resource management:

```typescript
async function updateSalaries() {
    await using queryRunner = dataSource.createQueryRunner()
    await queryRunner.manager.update(
        Employee,
        { level: "junior" },
        { bonus: 0.2 },
    )
    await queryRunner.manager.update(
        Employee,
        { level: "senior" },
        { bonus: 0.1 },
    )
    // no need anymore to manually release the QueryRunner
}

try {
    await updateSalaries()
} catch (error) {
    console.error(error)
}
```

When declaring a query runner like this, it will be automatically released after the last statement in the containing scope was executed.
