docs/docs/entity/5-view-entities.md, before:

# View Entities

## What is a ViewEntity?

View entity is a class that maps to a database view.
You can create a view entity by defining a new class and mark it with `@ViewEntity()`:

`@ViewEntity()` accepts following options:

- `name` - view name. If not specified, then view name is generated from entity class name.
- `database` - database name in selected DB server.
- `schema` - schema name.
- `expression` - view definition. **Required parameter**.
- `dependsOn` - List of other views on which the current views depends. If your view uses another view in its definition, you can add it here so that [migrations](../migrations/01-why.md) are generated in the correct order.

`expression` can be string with properly escaped columns and tables, depend on database used (postgres in example):

```typescript
@ViewEntity({
    expression: `
        SELECT "post"."id" AS "id", "post"."name" AS "name", "category"."name" AS "categoryName"
        FROM "post" "post"
        LEFT JOIN "category" "category" ON "post"."categoryId" = "category"."id"
    `
})
```

or an instance of QueryBuilder

```typescript
@ViewEntity({
    expression: (dataSource: DataSource) => dataSource
        .createQueryBuilder()
        .select("post.id", "id")
        .addSelect("post.name", "name")
        .addSelect("category.name", "categoryName")
        .from(Post, "post")
        .leftJoin(Category, "category", "category.id = post.categoryId")
})
```

**Note:** parameter binding is not supported due to drivers limitations. Use the literal parameters instead.

```typescript
@ViewEntity({
    expression: (dataSource: DataSource) => dataSource
        .createQueryBuilder()
        .select("post.id", "id")
        .addSelect("post.name", "name")
        .addSelect("category.name", "categoryName")
        .from(Post, "post")
        .leftJoin(Category, "category", "category.id = post.categoryId")
        .where("category.name = :name", { name: "Cars" })  // <-- this is wrong
        .where("category.name = 'Cars'")                   // <-- and this is right
})
```

Each view entity must be registered in your data source options:

```typescript
import { DataSource } from "typeorm"
import { UserView } from "./entities/UserView"

const dataSource = new DataSource({
    type: "mysql",
    host: "localhost",
    port: 3306,
    username: "test",
    password: "test",
    database: "test",
    entities: [UserView],
})
```

## View Entity columns

To map data from view into the correct entity columns you must mark entity columns with `@ViewColumn()`
decorator and specify these columns as select statement aliases.

example with string expression definition:

```typescript
import { ViewEntity, ViewColumn } from "typeorm"

@ViewEntity({
    expression: `
        SELECT "post"."id" AS "id", "post"."name" AS "name", "category"."name" AS "categoryName"
        FROM "post" "post"
        LEFT JOIN "category" "category" ON "post"."categoryId" = "category"."id"
    `,
})
export class PostCategory {
    @ViewColumn()
    id: number

    @ViewColumn()
    name: string

    @ViewColumn()
    categoryName: string
}
```

example using QueryBuilder:

```typescript
import { ViewEntity, ViewColumn } from "typeorm"

@ViewEntity({
    expression: (dataSource: DataSource) =>
        dataSource
            .createQueryBuilder()
            .select("post.id", "id")
            .addSelect("post.name", "name")
            .addSelect("category.name", "categoryName")
            .from(Post, "post")
            .leftJoin(Category, "category", "category.id = post.categoryId"),
})
export class PostCategory {
    @ViewColumn()
    id: number

    @ViewColumn()
    name: string

    @ViewColumn()
    categoryName: string
}
```

## View Column options

View Column options define additional options for your view entity columns, similar to [column options](./1-entities.md#column-options) for regular entities.

You can specify view column options in `@ViewColumn`:

```typescript
@ViewColumn({
    name: "postName",
    // ...
})
name: string;
```

List of available options in `ViewColumnOptions`:

- `name: string` - Column name in the database view.
- `transformer: { from(value: DatabaseType): EntityType, to(value: EntityType): DatabaseType }` - Used to unmarshal properties of arbitrary type `DatabaseType` supported by the database into a type `EntityType`. Arrays of transformers are also supported and are applied in reverse order when reading. Note that because database views are read-only, `transformer.to(value)` will never be used.

## Materialized View Indices

There's support for creation of indices for materialized views if using `PostgreSQL`.

```typescript
@ViewEntity({
    materialized: true,
    expression: (dataSource: DataSource) =>
        dataSource
            .createQueryBuilder()
            .select("post.id", "id")
            .addSelect("post.name", "name")
            .addSelect("category.name", "categoryName")
            .from(Post, "post")
            .leftJoin(Category, "category", "category.id = post.categoryId"),
})
export class PostCategory {
    @ViewColumn()
    id: number

    @Index()
    @ViewColumn()
    name: string

    @Index("catname-idx")
    @ViewColumn()
    categoryName: string
}
```

However, `unique` is currently the only supported option for indices in materialized views. The rest of the indices options will be ignored.

```typescript
@Index("name-idx", { unique: true })
@ViewColumn()
name: string
```

## Complete example

Lets create two entities and a view containing aggregated data from these entities:

```typescript
import { Entity, PrimaryGeneratedColumn, Column } from "typeorm"

@Entity()
export class Category {
    @PrimaryGeneratedColumn()
    id: number

    @Column()
    name: string
}
```

```typescript
import {
    Entity,
    PrimaryGeneratedColumn,
    Column,
    ManyToOne,
    JoinColumn,
} from "typeorm"
import { Category } from "./Category"

@Entity()
export class Post {
    @PrimaryGeneratedColumn()
    id: number

    @Column()
    name: string

    @Column()
    categoryId: number

    @ManyToOne(() => Category)
    @JoinColumn({ name: "categoryId" })
    category: Category
}
```

```typescript
import { ViewEntity, ViewColumn, DataSource } from "typeorm"

@ViewEntity({
    expression: (dataSource: DataSource) =>
        dataSource
            .createQueryBuilder()
            .select("post.id", "id")
            .addSelect("post.name", "name")
            .addSelect("category.name", "categoryName")
            .from(Post, "post")
            .leftJoin(Category, "category", "category.id = post.categoryId"),
})
export class PostCategory {
    @ViewColumn()
    id: number

    @ViewColumn()
    name: string

    @ViewColumn()
    categoryName: string
}
```

then fill these tables with data and request all data from PostCategory view:

```typescript
import { Category } from "./entities/Category"
import { Post } from "./entities/Post"
import { PostCategory } from "./entities/PostCategory"

const category1 = new Category()
category1.name = "Cars"
await dataSource.manager.save(category1)

const category2 = new Category()
category2.name = "Airplanes"
await dataSource.manager.save(category2)

const post1 = new Post()
post1.name = "About BMW"
post1.categoryId = category1.id
await dataSource.manager.save(post1)

const post2 = new Post()
post2.name = "About Boeing"
post2.categoryId = category2.id
await dataSource.manager.save(post2)

const postCategories = await dataSource.manager.find(PostCategory)
const postCategory = await dataSource.manager.findOneBy(PostCategory, { id: 1 })
```

the result in `postCategories` will be:

```javascript
[ PostCategory { id: 1, name: 'About BMW', categoryName: 'Cars' },
  PostCategory { id: 2, name: 'About Boeing', categoryName: 'Airplanes' } ]
```

and in `postCategory`:

```javascript
PostCategory { id: 1, name: 'About BMW', categoryName: 'Cars' }
```

Commit message:

docs: add materialized view support details for CockroachDB

docs/docs/entity/5-view-entities.md, after:

# View Entities

## What is a ViewEntity?

View entity is a class that maps to a database view.
You can create a view entity by defining a new class and mark it with `@ViewEntity()`:

`@ViewEntity()` accepts following options:

- `name` - view name. If not specified, then view name is generated from entity class name.
- `database` - database name in selected DB server.
- `schema` - schema name.
- `expression` - view definition. **Required parameter**.
- `materialized` - Indicates if the view is materialized. Supported by `PostgreSQL` and `CockroachDB`.
- `dependsOn` - List of other views on which the current views depends. If your view uses another view in its definition, you can add it here so that [migrations](../migrations/01-why.md) are generated in the correct order.

`expression` can be string with properly escaped columns and tables, depend on database used (postgres in example):

```typescript
@ViewEntity({
    expression: `
        SELECT "post"."id" AS "id", "post"."name" AS "name", "category"."name" AS "categoryName"
        FROM "post" "post"
        LEFT JOIN "category" "category" ON "post"."categoryId" = "category"."id"
    `
})
```

or an instance of QueryBuilder

```typescript
@ViewEntity({
    expression: (dataSource: DataSource) => dataSource
        .createQueryBuilder()
        .select("post.id", "id")
        .addSelect("post.name", "name")
        .addSelect("category.name", "categoryName")
        .from(Post, "post")
        .leftJoin(Category, "category", "category.id = post.categoryId")
})
```

**Note:** parameter binding is not supported due to drivers limitations. Use the literal parameters instead.

```typescript
@ViewEntity({
    expression: (dataSource: DataSource) => dataSource
        .createQueryBuilder()
        .select("post.id", "id")
        .addSelect("post.name", "name")
        .addSelect("category.name", "categoryName")
        .from(Post, "post")
        .leftJoin(Category, "category", "category.id = post.categoryId")
        .where("category.name = :name", { name: "Cars" })  // <-- this is wrong
        .where("category.name = 'Cars'")                   // <-- and this is right
})
```

Each view entity must be registered in your data source options:

```typescript
import { DataSource } from "typeorm"
import { UserView } from "./entities/UserView"

const dataSource = new DataSource({
    type: "mysql",
    host: "localhost",
    port: 3306,
    username: "test",
    password: "test",
    database: "test",
    entities: [UserView],
})
```

## View Entity columns

To map data from view into the correct entity columns you must mark entity columns with `@ViewColumn()`
decorator and specify these columns as select statement aliases.

example with string expression definition:

```typescript
import { ViewEntity, ViewColumn } from "typeorm"

@ViewEntity({
    expression: `
        SELECT "post"."id" AS "id", "post"."name" AS "name", "category"."name" AS "categoryName"
        FROM "post" "post"
        LEFT JOIN "category" "category" ON "post"."categoryId" = "category"."id"
    `,
})
export class PostCategory {
    @ViewColumn()
    id: number

    @ViewColumn()
    name: string

    @ViewColumn()
    categoryName: string
}
```

example using QueryBuilder:

```typescript
import { ViewEntity, ViewColumn } from "typeorm"

@ViewEntity({
    expression: (dataSource: DataSource) =>
        dataSource
            .createQueryBuilder()
            .select("post.id", "id")
            .addSelect("post.name", "name")
            .addSelect("category.name", "categoryName")
            .from(Post, "post")
            .leftJoin(Category, "category", "category.id = post.categoryId"),
})
export class PostCategory {
    @ViewColumn()
    id: number

    @ViewColumn()
    name: string

    @ViewColumn()
    categoryName: string
}
```

## View Column options

View Column options define additional options for your view entity columns, similar to [column options](./1-entities.md#column-options) for regular entities.

You can specify view column options in `@ViewColumn`:

```typescript
@ViewColumn({
    name: "postName",
    // ...
})
name: string;
```

List of available options in `ViewColumnOptions`:

- `name: string` - Column name in the database view.
- `transformer: { from(value: DatabaseType): EntityType, to(value: EntityType): DatabaseType }` - Used to unmarshal properties of arbitrary type `DatabaseType` supported by the database into a type `EntityType`. Arrays of transformers are also supported and are applied in reverse order when reading. Note that because database views are read-only, `transformer.to(value)` will never be used.

## Materialized View Indices

There's support for creation of indices for materialized views if using `PostgreSQL` or `CockroachDB`.

```typescript
@ViewEntity({
    materialized: true,
    expression: (dataSource: DataSource) =>
        dataSource
            .createQueryBuilder()
            .select("post.id", "id")
            .addSelect("post.name", "name")
            .addSelect("category.name", "categoryName")
            .from(Post, "post")
            .leftJoin(Category, "category", "category.id = post.categoryId"),
})
export class PostCategory {
    @ViewColumn()
    id: number

    @Index()
    @ViewColumn()
    name: string

    @Index("catname-idx")
    @ViewColumn()
    categoryName: string
}
```

However, `unique` is currently the only supported option for indices in materialized views. The rest of the indices options will be ignored.

```typescript
@Index("name-idx", { unique: true })
@ViewColumn()
name: string
```

## Complete example

Lets create two entities and a view containing aggregated data from these entities:

```typescript
import { Entity, PrimaryGeneratedColumn, Column } from "typeorm"

@Entity()
export class Category {
    @PrimaryGeneratedColumn()
    id: number

    @Column()
    name: string
}
```

```typescript
import {
    Entity,
    PrimaryGeneratedColumn,
    Column,
    ManyToOne,
    JoinColumn,
} from "typeorm"
import { Category } from "./Category"

@Entity()
export class Post {
    @PrimaryGeneratedColumn()
    id: number

    @Column()
    name: string

    @Column()
    categoryId: number

    @ManyToOne(() => Category)
    @JoinColumn({ name: "categoryId" })
    category: Category
}
```

```typescript
import { ViewEntity, ViewColumn, DataSource } from "typeorm"

@ViewEntity({
    expression: (dataSource: DataSource) =>
        dataSource
            .createQueryBuilder()
            .select("post.id", "id")
            .addSelect("post.name", "name")
            .addSelect("category.name", "categoryName")
            .from(Post, "post")
            .leftJoin(Category, "category", "category.id = post.categoryId"),
})
export class PostCategory {
    @ViewColumn()
    id: number

    @ViewColumn()
    name: string

    @ViewColumn()
    categoryName: string
}
```

then fill these tables with data and request all data from PostCategory view:

```typescript
import { Category } from "./entities/Category"
import { Post } from "./entities/Post"
import { PostCategory } from "./entities/PostCategory"

const category1 = new Category()
category1.name = "Cars"
await dataSource.manager.save(category1)

const category2 = new Category()
category2.name = "Airplanes"
await dataSource.manager.save(category2)

const post1 = new Post()
post1.name = "About BMW"
post1.categoryId = category1.id
await dataSource.manager.save(post1)

const post2 = new Post()
post2.name = "About Boeing"
post2.categoryId = category2.id
await dataSource.manager.save(post2)

const postCategories = await dataSource.manager.find(PostCategory)
const postCategory = await dataSource.manager.findOneBy(PostCategory, { id: 1 })
```

the result in `postCategories` will be:

```javascript
[ PostCategory { id: 1, name: 'About BMW', categoryName: 'Cars' },
  PostCategory { id: 2, name: 'About Boeing', categoryName: 'Airplanes' } ]
```

and in `postCategory`:

```javascript
PostCategory { id: 1, name: 'About BMW', categoryName: 'Cars' }
```
